README.md, before:

# EVM-LITE
## A lean Ethereum node with interchangeable consensus.

We took the [Go-Ethereum](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum)
implementation (Geth) and extracted the EVM and Trie components to create a
lean and modular version with interchangeable consensus.

The EVM is a virtual machine specifically designed to run untrusted code on a
network of computers. Every transaction applied to the EVM modifies the State
which is persisted in a Merkle Patricia tree. This data structure allows to
simply check if a given transaction was actually applied to the VM and can
reduce the entire State to a single hash (merkle root) rather analogous to a
fingerprint.

The EVM is meant to be used in conjunction with a system that broadcasts
transactions across network participants and ensures that everyone executes the
same transactions in the same order. Ethereum uses a Blockchain and a Proof of
Work consensus algorithm. EVM-Lite makes it easy to use any consensus system,
including [Babble](https://github.com/mosaicnetworks/babble) .

## ARCHITECTURE

```
                +-------------------------------------------+
+----------+    |  +-------------+         +-------------+  |       
|          |    |  | Service     |         | State       |  |
|  Client  <-----> |             | <------ |             |  |
|          |    |  | -API        |         | -EVM        |  |
+----------+    |  | -Keystore   |         | -Trie       |  |
                |  |             |         | -Database   |  |
                |  +-------------+         +-------------+  |
                |         |                       ^         |     
                |         v                       |         |
                |  +-------------------------------------+  |
                |  | Engine                              |  |
                |  |                                     |  |
                |  |       +----------------------+      |  |
                |  |       | Consensus            |      |  |
                |  |       +----------------------+      |  |
                |  |                                     |  |
                |  +-------------------------------------+  |
                |                                           |
                +-------------------------------------------+

```

## Consensus Implementations:

- **SOLO**: No Consensus. Transactions are relayed directly from Service to
            State

- **[BABBLE](https://github.com/mosaicnetworks/babble)**: Inmemory Babble node.

- **[RAFT](https://github.com/hashicorp/raft)**: Hashicorp implementation of
  Raft (limited).

more to come...

## USAGE

Each consensus has its own subcommand `evml [consensus]`, and its own
configuration flags.

```
EVM-Lite node

Usage:
  evml [command]

Available Commands:
  babble      Run the evm-lite node with Babble consensus
  help        Help about any command
  raft        Run the evm-lite node with Raft consensus
  solo        Run the evm-lite node with Solo consensus (no consensus)
  version     Show version info

Flags:
  -d, --datadir string        Top-level directory for configuration and data (default "/home/user/.evm-lite")
      --eth.cache int         Megabytes of memory allocated to internal caching (min 16MB / database forced) (default 128)
      --eth.db string         Eth database file (default "/home/user/.evm-lite/eth/chaindata")
      --eth.genesis string    Location of genesis file (default "/home/user/.evm-lite/eth/genesis.json")
      --eth.keystore string   Location of Ethereum account keys (default "/home/user/.evm-lite/eth/keystore")
      --eth.listen string     Address of HTTP API service (default ":8080")
      --eth.pwd string        Password file to unlock accounts (default "/home/user/.evm-lite/eth/pwd.txt")
  -h, --help                  help for evml
      --log string            debug, info, warn, error, fatal, panic (default "debug")

Use "evml [command] --help" for more information about a command.

```

Options can also be specified in a `evml.toml` file in the `datadir`.

ex (evml.toml):
``` toml
log=info
[eth]
db = "/eth.db"
[babble]
listen="127.0.0.1:1337"
```

## Configuration

The application writes data and reads configuration from the directory specified
by the --datadir flag. The directory structure must respect the following
stucture:

```
host:~/.evm-lite$ tree
├── babble
│   ├── peers.json
│   └── priv_key.pem
├── eth
│   ├── genesis.json
│   ├── keystore
│   │   └── UTC--2018-10-14T11-12-24.412349157Z--633139fa62d5c27f454259ba59fc34773bd19457
│   └── pwd.txt
└── evml.toml
```

The above example shows a `babble` folder, but the general idea is that
consensus  configuration goes in a separate folder from the Ethereum
configuration.

The Ethereum genesis file defines Ethereum accounts and is stripped of all   
the Ethereum POW stuff. This file is useful to predefine a set of accounts  
that own all the initial Ether at the inception of the network.  

Example Ethereum genesis.json defining two account:
```json
{
   "alloc": {
        "629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727": {
            "balance": "1337000000000000000000"
        },
        "e32e14de8b81d8d3aedacb1868619c74a68feab0": {
            "balance": "1337000000000000000000"
        }
   }
}
```

It is possible to enable evm-lite to control certain accounts by providing a  
list of encrypted private keys in the keystore directory. With these private
keys, evm-lite will be able to sign transactions on behalf of the accounts
associated with the keys.  

```
host:~/.evm-lite/eth/keystore$ tree
.
├── UTC--2016-02-01T16-52-27.910165812Z--629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727
├── UTC--2016-02-01T16-52-28.021010343Z--e32e14de8b81d8d3aedacb1868619c74a68feab0
```

These keys are protected by a password. Use the `eth.pwd` flag to specify the
location of the password file.

**Needless to say you should not reuse these addresses and private keys**

## Database

EVM-Lite will use a LevelDB database to persist state objects. The file of the  
database can be specified with the `eth.db` flag which defaults to
`<datadir>/eth/chaindata`.  

If a database already exists when starting a new evm-lite instance, the state  
will be set to the one corresponding to the last committed block.  

## API
The Service exposes an API at the address specified by the --eth.listen flag for
clients to interact with Ethereum.  

### Get controlled accounts

This endpoint returns all the accounts that are controlled by the evm-lite
instance. These are the accounts whose private keys are present in the keystore.

example:
```bash
host:~$ curl http://[api_addr]/accounts -s | json_pp
{
   "accounts" : [
      {
         "address" : "0x629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727",
         "balance" : 1337000000000000000000,
         "nonce": 0
      },
      {
         "address" : "0xe32e14de8b81d8d3aedacb1868619c74a68feab0",
         "balance" : 1337000000000000000000,
         "nonce": 0
      }
   ]
}
```
### Get any account

This method allows retrieving the information about any account, not just the
ones whose keys are included in the keystore.  

```bash
host:~$ curl http://[api_addr]/account/0x629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727 -s | json_pp
{
    "address":"0x629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727",
    "balance":1337000000000000000000,
    "nonce":0
}
```

### Send transactions from controlled accounts

Send a transaction from an account controlled by the evm-lite instance. The
transaction will be signed by the service since the corresponding private key is
present in the keystore.

example: Send Ether between accounts  
```bash
host:~$ curl -X POST http://[api_addr]/tx -d '{"from":"0x629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727","to":"0xe32e14de8b81d8d3aedacb1868619c74a68feab0","value":6666}' -s | json_pp
{
   "txHash" : "0xeeeed34877502baa305442e3a72df094cfbb0b928a7c53447745ff35d50020bf"
}
```

### Get Transaction receipt
example:
```bash
host:~$ curl http://[api_addr]/tx/0xeeeed34877502baa305442e3a72df094cfbb0b928a7c53447745ff35d50020bf -s | json_pp
{
   "to" : "0xe32e14de8b81d8d3aedacb1868619c74a68feab0",
   "root" : "0xc8f90911c9280651a0cd84116826d31773e902e48cb9a15b7bb1e7a6abc850c5",
   "gasUsed" : "0x5208",
   "from" : "0x629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727",
   "transactionHash" : "0xeeeed34877502baa305442e3a72df094cfbb0b928a7c53447745ff35d50020bf",
   "logs" : [],
   "cumulativeGasUsed" : "0x5208",
   "contractAddress" : null,
   "logsBloom" : "0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
}

```

Then check accounts again to see that the balances have changed:
```bash
{
   "accounts" : [
      {
         "address" : "0x629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727",
         "balance" : 1336999999999999993334,
         "nonce":1
      },
      {
         "address" : "0xe32e14de8b81d8d3aedacb1868619c74a68feab0",
         "balance" : 1337000000000000006666,
         "nonce":0
      }
   ]
}
```
### Send raw signed transactions

Most of the time, one will require to send transactions from accounts that are
not  controlled by the evm-lite instance. The transaction will be assembled,
signed  and encoded on the client side. The resulting raw signed transaction
bytes can be submitted to evm-lite through the ```/rawtx``` endpoint.  

example:
```bash
host:~$ curl -X POST http://[api_addr]/rawtx -d '0xf8628080830f424094564686380e267d1572ee409368e1d42081562a8e8201f48026a022b4f68bfbd4f4c309524ebdbf4bac858e0ad65fd06108c934b45a6da88b92f7a046433c388997fd7b02eb7128f4d2401ef2d10d574c42edf15875a43ee51a1993' -s | json_pp
{
    "txHash":"0x5496489c606d74ad7435568393fa2c4619e64497267f80864109277631aa849d"
}
```

## Get consensus info

The ```/info``` endpoint exposes a map of information provided by the consensus
system.

example (with Babble consensus):
```bash
host:-$ curl http://[api_addr]/info | json_pp
{
   "rounds_per_second" : "0.00",
   "type" : "babble",
   "consensus_transactions" : "10",
   "num_peers" : "4",
   "consensus_events" : "10",
   "sync_rate" : "1.00",
   "transaction_pool" : "0",
   "state" : "Babbling",
   "events_per_second" : "0.00",
   "undetermined_events" : "22",
   "id" : "1785923847",
   "last_consensus_round" : "1",
   "last_block_index" : "0",
   "round_events" : "0"
}

```

## CLIENT

Please refer to [EVM-Lite Client](https://github.com/mosaicnetworks/evm-lite-client)
for Javascript utilities and a CLI to interact with the API.

## DEV

DEPENDENCIES

We use glide to manage dependencies:

```bash
[...]/evm-lite$ curl https://glide.sh/get | sh
[...]/evm-lite$ glide install
```
This will download all dependencies and put them in the **vendor** folder; it
could take a few minutes.

CONSENSUS

To add a new consensus system:

- implement the consensus interface (consensus/consensus.go)
- add a property to the the global configuration object (config/config.go)
- create the corresponding CLI subcommand in cmd/evml/commands/
- register that command to the root command

## DEPLOY

We provide a set of scripts to automate the deployment of testnets. This
requires [terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) and
[docker](https://www.docker.com/).

Support for AWS is also available (cf. deploy/)

Commit message:

Always initialize form empty state, not last root
We use to keep track of the latest state hash (root in evm parlance)
in the chaindata db, and initialize the state from that point if a
database already existed. But Babble replays all the past blocks when
it is restarted with an exisiting Babble database, so we were
re-applying transactions to an already up-to-date state, messing up the
system. Basically, the problem is that there are two databases: one for
Babble, and one for the chaindata. Which one do we use to bootstrap a
node? We chose the Babble DB, replaying transactions on an empty state.

README.md, after:

# EVM-LITE
## A lean Ethereum node with interchangeable consensus.

We took the [Go-Ethereum](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum)
implementation (Geth) and extracted the EVM and Trie components to create a
lean and modular version with interchangeable consensus.

The EVM is a virtual machine specifically designed to run untrusted code on a
network of computers. Every transaction applied to the EVM modifies the State
which is persisted in a Merkle Patricia tree. This data structure allows to
simply check if a given transaction was actually applied to the VM and can
reduce the entire State to a single hash (merkle root) rather analogous to a
fingerprint.

The EVM is meant to be used in conjunction with a system that broadcasts
transactions across network participants and ensures that everyone executes the
same transactions in the same order. Ethereum uses a Blockchain and a Proof of
Work consensus algorithm. EVM-Lite makes it easy to use any consensus system,
including [Babble](https://github.com/mosaicnetworks/babble) .

## ARCHITECTURE

```
                +-------------------------------------------+
+----------+    |  +-------------+         +-------------+  |       
|          |    |  | Service     |         | State       |  |
|  Client  <-----> |             | <------ |             |  |
|          |    |  | -API        |         | -EVM        |  |
+----------+    |  | -Keystore   |         | -Trie       |  |
                |  |             |         | -Database   |  |
                |  +-------------+         +-------------+  |
                |         |                       ^         |     
                |         v                       |         |
                |  +-------------------------------------+  |
                |  | Engine                              |  |
                |  |                                     |  |
                |  |       +----------------------+      |  |
                |  |       | Consensus            |      |  |
                |  |       +----------------------+      |  |
                |  |                                     |  |
                |  +-------------------------------------+  |
                |                                           |
                +-------------------------------------------+

```

## Consensus Implementations:

- **SOLO**: No Consensus. Transactions are relayed directly from Service to
  State.

- **[BABBLE](https://github.com/mosaicnetworks/babble)**: Inmemory Babble node.
  EVM-Lite does not support Babble's FastSync and Dynamic Membership protocols
  yet, so it is important to set the `--store` flag, and a high `--sync-limit` 
  value. 

- **[RAFT](https://github.com/hashicorp/raft)**: Hashicorp implementation of
  Raft (limited).

more to come...

## USAGE

Each consensus has its own subcommand `evml [consensus]`, and its own
configuration flags.

```
EVM-Lite node

Usage:
  evml [command]

Available Commands:
  babble      Run the evm-lite node with Babble consensus
  help        Help about any command
  raft        Run the evm-lite node with Raft consensus
  solo        Run the evm-lite node with Solo consensus (no consensus)
  version     Show version info

Flags:
  -d, --datadir string        Top-level directory for configuration and data (default "/home/user/.evm-lite")
      --eth.cache int         Megabytes of memory allocated to internal caching (min 16MB / database forced) (default 128)
      --eth.db string         Eth database file (default "/home/user/.evm-lite/eth/chaindata")
      --eth.genesis string    Location of genesis file (default "/home/user/.evm-lite/eth/genesis.json")
      --eth.keystore string   Location of Ethereum account keys (default "/home/user/.evm-lite/eth/keystore")
      --eth.listen string     Address of HTTP API service (default ":8080")
      --eth.pwd string        Password file to unlock accounts (default "/home/user/.evm-lite/eth/pwd.txt")
  -h, --help                  help for evml
      --log string            debug, info, warn, error, fatal, panic (default "debug")

Use "evml [command] --help" for more information about a command.

```

Options can also be specified in a `evml.toml` file in the `datadir`.

ex (evml.toml):
``` toml
log=info
[eth]
db = "/eth.db"
[babble]
listen="127.0.0.1:1337"
```

## Configuration

The application writes data and reads configuration from the directory specified
by the --datadir flag. The directory structure must respect the following
stucture:

```
host:~/.evm-lite$ tree
├── babble
│   ├── peers.json
│   └── priv_key.pem
├── eth
│   ├── genesis.json
│   ├── keystore
│   │   └── UTC--2018-10-14T11-12-24.412349157Z--633139fa62d5c27f454259ba59fc34773bd19457
│   └── pwd.txt
└── evml.toml
```

The above example shows a `babble` folder, but the general idea is that
consensus  configuration goes in a separate folder from the Ethereum
configuration.

The Ethereum genesis file defines Ethereum accounts and is stripped of all   
the Ethereum POW stuff. This file is useful to predefine a set of accounts  
that own all the initial Ether at the inception of the network.  

Example Ethereum genesis.json defining two account:
```json
{
   "alloc": {
        "629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727": {
            "balance": "1337000000000000000000"
        },
        "e32e14de8b81d8d3aedacb1868619c74a68feab0": {
            "balance": "1337000000000000000000"
        }
   }
}
```

It is possible to enable evm-lite to control certain accounts by providing a  
list of encrypted private keys in the keystore directory. With these private
keys, evm-lite will be able to sign transactions on behalf of the accounts
associated with the keys.  

```
host:~/.evm-lite/eth/keystore$ tree
.
├── UTC--2016-02-01T16-52-27.910165812Z--629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727
├── UTC--2016-02-01T16-52-28.021010343Z--e32e14de8b81d8d3aedacb1868619c74a68feab0
```

These keys are protected by a password. Use the `eth.pwd` flag to specify the
location of the password file.

**Needless to say you should not reuse these addresses and private keys**

## Database

EVM-Lite will use a LevelDB database to persist state objects. The file of the  
database can be specified with the `eth.db` flag which defaults to
`<datadir>/eth/chaindata`.  

## API
The Service exposes an API at the address specified by the --eth.listen flag for
clients to interact with Ethereum.  

### Get controlled accounts

This endpoint returns all the accounts that are controlled by the evm-lite
instance. These are the accounts whose private keys are present in the keystore.

example:
```bash
host:~$ curl http://[api_addr]/accounts -s | json_pp
{
   "accounts" : [
      {
         "address" : "0x629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727",
         "balance" : 1337000000000000000000,
         "nonce": 0
      },
      {
         "address" : "0xe32e14de8b81d8d3aedacb1868619c74a68feab0",
         "balance" : 1337000000000000000000,
         "nonce": 0
      }
   ]
}
```
### Get any account

This method allows retrieving the information about any account, not just the
ones whose keys are included in the keystore.  

```bash
host:~$ curl http://[api_addr]/account/0x629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727 -s | json_pp
{
    "address":"0x629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727",
    "balance":1337000000000000000000,
    "nonce":0
}
```

### Send transactions from controlled accounts

Send a transaction from an account controlled by the evm-lite instance. The
transaction will be signed by the service since the corresponding private key is
present in the keystore.

example: Send Ether between accounts  
```bash
host:~$ curl -X POST http://[api_addr]/tx -d '{"from":"0x629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727","to":"0xe32e14de8b81d8d3aedacb1868619c74a68feab0","value":6666}' -s | json_pp
{
   "txHash" : "0xeeeed34877502baa305442e3a72df094cfbb0b928a7c53447745ff35d50020bf"
}
```

### Get Transaction receipt
example:
```bash
host:~$ curl http://[api_addr]/tx/0xeeeed34877502baa305442e3a72df094cfbb0b928a7c53447745ff35d50020bf -s | json_pp
{
   "to" : "0xe32e14de8b81d8d3aedacb1868619c74a68feab0",
   "root" : "0xc8f90911c9280651a0cd84116826d31773e902e48cb9a15b7bb1e7a6abc850c5",
   "gasUsed" : "0x5208",
   "from" : "0x629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727",
   "transactionHash" : "0xeeeed34877502baa305442e3a72df094cfbb0b928a7c53447745ff35d50020bf",
   "logs" : [],
   "cumulativeGasUsed" : "0x5208",
   "contractAddress" : null,
   "logsBloom" : "0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
}

```

Then check accounts again to see that the balances have changed:
```bash
{
   "accounts" : [
      {
         "address" : "0x629007eb99ff5c3539ada8a5800847eacfc25727",
         "balance" : 1336999999999999993334,
         "nonce":1
      },
      {
         "address" : "0xe32e14de8b81d8d3aedacb1868619c74a68feab0",
         "balance" : 1337000000000000006666,
         "nonce":0
      }
   ]
}
```
### Send raw signed transactions

Most of the time, one will require to send transactions from accounts that are
not  controlled by the evm-lite instance. The transaction will be assembled,
signed  and encoded on the client side. The resulting raw signed transaction
bytes can be submitted to evm-lite through the ```/rawtx``` endpoint.  

example:
```bash
host:~$ curl -X POST http://[api_addr]/rawtx -d '0xf8628080830f424094564686380e267d1572ee409368e1d42081562a8e8201f48026a022b4f68bfbd4f4c309524ebdbf4bac858e0ad65fd06108c934b45a6da88b92f7a046433c388997fd7b02eb7128f4d2401ef2d10d574c42edf15875a43ee51a1993' -s | json_pp
{
    "txHash":"0x5496489c606d74ad7435568393fa2c4619e64497267f80864109277631aa849d"
}
```

## Get consensus info

The ```/info``` endpoint exposes a map of information provided by the consensus
system.

example (with Babble consensus):
```bash
host:-$ curl http://[api_addr]/info | json_pp
{
   "rounds_per_second" : "0.00",
   "type" : "babble",
   "consensus_transactions" : "10",
   "num_peers" : "4",
   "consensus_events" : "10",
   "sync_rate" : "1.00",
   "transaction_pool" : "0",
   "state" : "Babbling",
   "events_per_second" : "0.00",
   "undetermined_events" : "22",
   "id" : "1785923847",
   "last_consensus_round" : "1",
   "last_block_index" : "0",
   "round_events" : "0"
}

```

## CLIENT

Please refer to [EVM-Lite Client](https://github.com/mosaicnetworks/evm-lite-client)
for Javascript utilities and a CLI to interact with the API.

## DEV

DEPENDENCIES

We use glide to manage dependencies:

```bash
[...]/evm-lite$ curl https://glide.sh/get | sh
[...]/evm-lite$ glide install
```
This will download all dependencies and put them in the **vendor** folder; it
could take a few minutes.

CONSENSUS

To add a new consensus system:

- implement the consensus interface (consensus/consensus.go)
- add a property to the the global configuration object (config/config.go)
- create the corresponding CLI subcommand in cmd/evml/commands/
- register that command to the root command

## DEPLOY

We provide a set of scripts to automate the deployment of testnets. This
requires [terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) and
[docker](https://www.docker.com/).

Support for AWS is also available (cf. deploy/)
