deploy/README.md, before:

# DEPLOY

**THIS IS NOT INTENDED FOR PRODUCTION DEPLOYMENTS, JUST TESTING**

We provide a set of scripts to automate the deployment of evm-lite networks
locally (using docker) or in the cloud (using AWS). Parameters control the
number of nodes, and which consensus system to use (solo, babble, raft, etc.).

Whether locally or in the cloud, the workflow is as follows:

1. **Build**: Create virtual machine image (docker or ami)
2. **Config**: Generate configuration files for each node and for the network as
               a whole
3. **Deploy**: Create and start node instances

**The scripts have only been tested on Ubuntu**

## BUILD

### Docker Image

```bash
$ make build-docker-image
```
Produce a versioned Docker image with `evml` using a classic Dockerfile.

**Dependencies**: Requires Docker Engine and go dependencies (use glide install
                  in root dir)

### Amazon Machine Image (AMI)

```bash
$ make build-ami
```
Produce an AMI to run instances (virtual servers) in the AWS cloud with `evml`
pre-installed.

**Dependencies:** Requires Hashicorp Packer, an AWS account, and AWS access keys

From Packer documentation:

> This builder builds an AMI by launching an EC2 instance from a source AMI,
> provisioning that running machine, and then creating an AMI from that machine.
> This is all done in your own AWS account. The builder will create temporary
> keypairs, security group rules, etc. that provide it temporary access to the
> instance while the image is being created. This simplifies configuration quite
> a bit.
>
> The builder does not manage AMIs. Once it creates an AMI and stores it in your
> account, it is up to you to use, delete, etc. the AMI.

Provide the AWS access key in the `build/ami/secret.json` file:

```json
{
    "aws_access_key" : "...",
    "aws_secret_key" : "..."
}
```

## CONFIG

```bash
$ make conf CONSENSUS=[solo] NODES=[1] IPBASE=[node] IPADD=[0]
```

Create the configuration files for the network.

Parameters:

- CONSENSUS: solo, babble, or raft

- NODES: number of nodes in the network

- IPBASE/IPADD: used to determine the address of nodes.

ex: If IPBASE=10.0.2. IPADD=10, and NODES=4, the resulting addresses will be:
    10.0.2.10, 10.0.2.11, 10.0.2.12, and 10.0.2.13.
    If IPBASE and IPADD are not specified, the resulting addresses will default
    to: node0, node1, node2, and node3.

The configuration is written to the `conf/[consensus]/conf` folder. For each
node, there will usually be two configuration sub-directories: one for the
Ethereum-related things, and one for the consensus related things. For example,
creating the configuration for two babble nodes yields the following files:

`$ make conf CONSENSUS=babble NODES=2`

```bash
conf/babble/conf/
├── evml.toml
├── genesis.json
├── keystore
│   ├── node0-key.json
│   └── node1-key.json
├── node0
│   ├── babble
│   │   ├── addr
│   │   ├── key_info
│   │   ├── key.pub
│   │   ├── peers.json
│   │   └── priv_key
│   ├── eth
│   │   ├── genesis.json
│   │   ├── keystore
│   │   │   └── key.json
│   │   └── pwd.txt
│   └── evml.toml
├── node1
│   ├── babble
│   │   ├── addr
│   │   ├── key_info
│   │   ├── key.pub
│   │   ├── peers.json
│   │   └── priv_key
│   ├── eth
│   │   ├── genesis.json
│   │   ├── keystore
│   │   │   └── key.json
│   │   └── pwd.txt
│   └── evml.toml
└── peers.json

```

It creates an Ethereum key for each node using the default password file, and a
genesis.json file. The genesis file is used by evm-lite to initialize the state
and prefund the accounts. The same keys are reused in Babble to participate in
consensus. The evml.toml file contains parameters for Babble and evm-lite.

## DEPLOY

### Local

Local testnets are formed of multiple Docker containers running on the host
machine; they are convenient to quickly test evm-lite.

On Linux, Docker containers are directly accessible from the host, so one can
bootstrap a testnet, and interact with it directly from a separate terminal. On
other operating systems, an additional layer of abstraction makes it necessary
to interact with testnet containers from other containers within the same
subnet.

The scripts will first create a local virtual bridge network called `monet`,
where container IPs will be in the `172.77.5.0/24` range (from 172.77.5.0 to
172.77.5.255). Containers connected to this network will automatically expose
all ports to each other, and no ports to the outside world. Special ports (for
the evm-lite HTTP service for example) may be opened from the Dockerfile (cf
deploy/build/docker) or Terraform main.tf.

Containers are assigned names and hostnames of the form `node0...node4...nodeN`,
and can use those hostnames directly to communicate with one-another within the
`monet` subnet. To access a container from the host, use the `172.77.5.X`
address.

The Docker containers, built from the Dockerfile in deploy/build/docker, come
pre-packaged with `evml`. Configuration files are mounted through a volume
attached to the default `~/.evm-lite` directory, which is the default location
for `evml`.  

Examples:

First, build the evm-lite docker image (cf BUILD).

``` bash
cd deploy
# configure and start a testnet of 4 evm-lite nodes with Babble consensus
make CONSENSUS=babble NODES=4
#configure and start a single evm-lite instance with Solo consensus
make CONSENSUS=solo NODES=1
#configure and start a testnet of 3 evm-lite nodes with Raft consensus
make CONSENSUS=raft NODES=3
#bring everything down
make stop
```

### Cloud

It is also possible to automate the deployment of testnets on AWS. This will
create and provision multiple virtual servers in the Amazon Cloud where they can
stay running indefinitely and accessible on the public internet. It obviously
requires an AWS account and corresponding access keys. Also be aware that
deploying resources on AWS in not necessarily free!

There are two types of credentials to provide to Terraform:

- The AWS API Access Key to connect to AWS and provision resources
- An SSH key to communicate with the provisioned instances

These credentials must be created from the AWS console before using these
scripts. Once created and retrieved from AWS, the credentials must be provided 
in the `/aws/secret.tfvars` file:

```
//AWS API ACCESS KEY
access_key = "..."
secret_key = "..."

//RSA KEY FOR SSH
key_name = "..."
key_path = "..."
```

The scripts will create an AWS subnet in the `10.0.2.0/24` range and assign it a
security group defining which ports should remain open or closed for machines
connected to this network. Then it will create a number of instances, built
using the evm-lite AMI (cf. BUILD), and connect them within this subnetwork.

Examples:

First, build the evm-lite AMI (cf BUILD) and record its ID in the `ami`
terraform variable (aws/variables.tf). Then: 

```bash
# configure and start a testnet of 4 nodes in AWS
make ENV=aws CONSENSUS=babble NODES=4 IPBASE=10.0.2. IPADD=10
# bring everything down
make stop ENV=aws
```

Commit message:

Amend the deploy/makefile to add VALIDATORS and POA options.

deploy/README.md, after:

# DEPLOY

**THIS IS NOT INTENDED FOR PRODUCTION DEPLOYMENTS, JUST TESTING**

We provide a set of scripts to automate the deployment of evm-lite networks
locally (using docker) or in the cloud (using AWS). Parameters control the
number of nodes, and which consensus system to use (solo, babble, raft, etc.).

Whether locally or in the cloud, the workflow is as follows:

1. **Build**: Create virtual machine image (docker or ami)
2. **Config**: Generate configuration files for each node and for the network as
               a whole
3. **Deploy**: Create and start node instances

**The scripts have only been tested on Ubuntu**

## BUILD

### Docker Image

```bash
$ make build-docker-image
```
Produce a versioned Docker image with `evml` using a classic Dockerfile.

**Dependencies**: Requires Docker Engine and go dependencies (use glide install
                  in root dir)

### Amazon Machine Image (AMI)

```bash
$ make build-ami
```
Produce an AMI to run instances (virtual servers) in the AWS cloud with `evml`
pre-installed.

**Dependencies:** Requires Hashicorp Packer, an AWS account, and AWS access keys

From Packer documentation:

> This builder builds an AMI by launching an EC2 instance from a source AMI,
> provisioning that running machine, and then creating an AMI from that machine.
> This is all done in your own AWS account. The builder will create temporary
> keypairs, security group rules, etc. that provide it temporary access to the
> instance while the image is being created. This simplifies configuration quite
> a bit.
>
> The builder does not manage AMIs. Once it creates an AMI and stores it in your
> account, it is up to you to use, delete, etc. the AMI.

Provide the AWS access key in the `build/ami/secret.json` file:

```json
{
    "aws_access_key" : "...",
    "aws_secret_key" : "..."
}
```

## CONFIG

```bash
$ make conf CONSENSUS=[solo] NODES=[1] IPBASE=[node] IPADD=[0] VALIDATORS=[validator] POA=[true|false]
```

Create the configuration files for the network.

Parameters:

- CONSENSUS: solo, babble, or raft

- NODES: number of nodes in the network

- IPBASE/IPADD: used to determine the address of nodes.

ex: If IPBASE=10.0.2. IPADD=10, and NODES=4, the resulting addresses will be:
    10.0.2.10, 10.0.2.11, 10.0.2.12, and 10.0.2.13.
    If IPBASE and IPADD are not specified, the resulting addresses will default
    to: node0, node1, node2, and node3.

- POA: denotes whether to build a POA network or not

- VALIDATORS: denotes the number of validators to add to the smart contract in the genesis block. It cannot exceed the NODES parameter.

The configuration is written to the `conf/[consensus]/conf` folder. For each
node, there will usually be two configuration sub-directories: one for the
Ethereum-related things, and one for the consensus related things. For example,
creating the configuration for two babble nodes yields the following files:

`$ make conf CONSENSUS=babble NODES=2 POA=false`

```bash
conf/babble/conf/
├── evml.toml
├── genesis.json
├── keystore
│   ├── node0-key.json
│   └── node1-key.json
├── node0
│   ├── babble
│   │   ├── addr
│   │   ├── key_info
│   │   ├── key.pub
│   │   ├── peers.json
│   │   └── priv_key
│   ├── eth
│   │   ├── genesis.json
│   │   ├── keystore
│   │   │   └── key.json
│   │   └── pwd.txt
│   └── evml.toml
├── node1
│   ├── babble
│   │   ├── addr
│   │   ├── key_info
│   │   ├── key.pub
│   │   ├── peers.json
│   │   └── priv_key
│   ├── eth
│   │   ├── genesis.json
│   │   ├── keystore
│   │   │   └── key.json
│   │   └── pwd.txt
│   └── evml.toml
└── peers.json

```

It creates an Ethereum key for each node using the default password file, and a
genesis.json file. The genesis file is used by evm-lite to initialize the state
and prefund the accounts. The same keys are reused in Babble to participate in
consensus. The evml.toml file contains parameters for Babble and evm-lite.

## DEPLOY

### Local

Local testnets are formed of multiple Docker containers running on the host
machine; they are convenient to quickly test evm-lite.

On Linux, Docker containers are directly accessible from the host, so one can
bootstrap a testnet, and interact with it directly from a separate terminal. On
other operating systems, an additional layer of abstraction makes it necessary
to interact with testnet containers from other containers within the same
subnet.

The scripts will first create a local virtual bridge network called `monet`,
where container IPs will be in the `172.77.5.0/24` range (from 172.77.5.0 to
172.77.5.255). Containers connected to this network will automatically expose
all ports to each other, and no ports to the outside world. Special ports (for
the evm-lite HTTP service for example) may be opened from the Dockerfile (cf
deploy/build/docker) or Terraform main.tf.

Containers are assigned names and hostnames of the form `node0...node4...nodeN`,
and can use those hostnames directly to communicate with one-another within the
`monet` subnet. To access a container from the host, use the `172.77.5.X`
address.

The Docker containers, built from the Dockerfile in deploy/build/docker, come
pre-packaged with `evml`. Configuration files are mounted through a volume
attached to the default `~/.evm-lite` directory, which is the default location
for `evml`.  

Examples:

First, build the evm-lite docker image (cf BUILD).

``` bash
cd deploy
# configure and start a testnet of 4 evm-lite nodes with Babble consensus
make CONSENSUS=babble NODES=4
#configure and start a single evm-lite instance with Solo consensus
make CONSENSUS=solo NODES=1
#configure and start a testnet of 3 evm-lite nodes with Raft consensus
make CONSENSUS=raft NODES=3
#bring everything down
make stop
```

### Cloud

It is also possible to automate the deployment of testnets on AWS. This will
create and provision multiple virtual servers in the Amazon Cloud where they can
stay running indefinitely and accessible on the public internet. It obviously
requires an AWS account and corresponding access keys. Also be aware that
deploying resources on AWS in not necessarily free!

There are two types of credentials to provide to Terraform:

- The AWS API Access Key to connect to AWS and provision resources
- An SSH key to communicate with the provisioned instances

These credentials must be created from the AWS console before using these
scripts. Once created and retrieved from AWS, the credentials must be provided 
in the `/aws/secret.tfvars` file:

```
//AWS API ACCESS KEY
access_key = "..."
secret_key = "..."

//RSA KEY FOR SSH
key_name = "..."
key_path = "..."
```

The scripts will create an AWS subnet in the `10.0.2.0/24` range and assign it a
security group defining which ports should remain open or closed for machines
connected to this network. Then it will create a number of instances, built
using the evm-lite AMI (cf. BUILD), and connect them within this subnetwork.

Examples:

First, build the evm-lite AMI (cf BUILD) and record its ID in the `ami`
terraform variable (aws/variables.tf). Then: 

```bash
# configure and start a testnet of 4 nodes in AWS
make ENV=aws CONSENSUS=babble NODES=4 IPBASE=10.0.2. IPADD=10
# bring everything down
make stop ENV=aws
```
